{"url": "https://news.sina.com.cn/c/2020-03-22/doc-iimxyqwa2303023.shtml", "title": "面对新冠肺炎 西方媒体的“双重标准病”好了吗？", "text": "原标题：真相放大镜 | 面对新冠肺炎，西方媒体的“双重标准病”好了吗？\n在抗疫过程中，中国和欧洲国家采取的措施大同小异，然而，得到的评价却大相径庭。换句话说，无论中国怎么做都是有问题的。\n一直以来，西方媒体在涉及中国问题上，拿着言论自由大棒肆无忌惮地将他们自我标榜的新闻专业主义抛诸脑后，最终暴露了其根深蒂固的种族主义歧视心态和意识形态偏见。\n“Authoritarian，” “human rights violation，” “China-centric global recession” 。。。 These keywords have been commonly seen in the western media after China ordered a lockdown in Wuhan to contain the coronavirus outbreak two months ago。\n“专制”、 “侵犯人权”、 “以中国为中心的全球衰退”…… 两个月前，在中国政府因新冠肺炎疫情暴发而下令武汉封城后，这些用语就成了西方媒体的关键词。\nWestern critics had nothing but skepticism to offer。 After all， shutting down the province of Hubei， closing shops and factories … as these measures were taken by a communist government， what else could they say？\n除了批评和怀疑，在西方媒体的报道中看不到别的什么评论。毕竟，封锁湖北省，关闭那里的商店和工厂……当这样的措施由共产党领导之下的政府实施时，指责就成了一种必然。\nNow， the coronavirus is officially a pandemic， steadily spreading around the world。 Italy has also decided to do the same as China， locking down the entire country。 Apart from Italy， governments across the continent have started enforcing lockdowns and are planning full border closures to prevent the spread of the virus。\n现在，新冠病毒已经正式成为大流行病，满世界疯狂传播。意大利和中国一样，也封锁了整个国家。欧洲多个国家也已开始实施封锁，并计划关闭边境，以防止病毒传播。\nThe French president has also ordered a lockdown， asking people to stay home。\n法国总统也已下令封锁全境，要求人们待在家里。\nPeople in the U.K。 will face a £1，000 fine or custody for if they refuse coronavirus tests and quarantine。 Police in England and Wales are allowed to use “reasonable force” to detain people who are at risk of infecting others。\n在英国，拒绝接受病毒检测和隔离者将面临1000英镑（约8271元）的罚款或被拘留。英格兰和威尔士的警察被允许使用“合理武力”拘留有感染他人风险的人。\nAs restrictions on people‘s movement are enforced across Europe， police in Madrid used drones to broadcast audio messages asking the public to stay indoors， just like the ones China used to administer the lockdown。 At the time， this act was called “bizarre” by many Western media outlets。\n欧洲各国都在对人们的行动加以限制。在马德里，警方使用无人机喊话，要求人们留在室内，就像当初中国用无人机来实施监督一样。而那时，中国的这种做法被西方媒体视为“怪异”。\nChina and Europe have implemented similar measures to fight the virus， however， some western media outlets have not treated them the same。\n在抗疫过程中，中国和欧洲国家采取的措施大同小异，然而，得到的评价却大相径庭。\nWhatever China did was another story。\n换句话说，无论中国怎么做都是有问题的。\nFor days， China has reported zero cases outside Hubei Province。 Only a handful of imported cases have been reported， according to officials。 This proves that the measures taken by the Chinese government have been effective。 But as many governments around the world find themselves ill-prepared to deal with the outbreak， blame game politics is becoming more prevalent， especially in the United States。\n过去几天，中国已经没有了本地确诊病例，新增病例均为境外输入，这证明了中国政府采取的措施是行之有效的。但在国外，某些政府貌似突然意识到自己的防疫工作做得很差，于是便玩起了老套的政治把戏——甩锅给中国，其中玩得最嗨的当属美国。\nWhile referring to the “Wuhan virus”， and the “Chinese virus” Trump has repeatedly blamed China for the coronavirus pandemic， saying that “the world is paying a very big price for what they did。”\n通过把病毒改称为“武汉病毒”和“中国病毒”，特朗普已经多次试图将此次大流行病归咎于中国，称“世界正在为他们（中国）的行为付出巨大代价”。\nMeanwhile， U.S。 right-wing media outlet Fox News is spreading the messages that Trump implies。\n与此同时，美国的右翼媒体福克斯新闻也开始推波助澜。\nFox News made a big U-turn in its coverage of the outbreak。 News host Jeanine Pirro on March 7 stated that “all the talk about coronavirus being so much more deadly doesn‘t reflect reality” but a week later， she called it an “incredibly contagious and dangerous virus。”\n福克斯新闻对疫情的报道出现了180度大转弯。主播珍妮·皮罗在3月7日说“所有关于新冠高致命性的言论都不是真的”，一周后，她又称其为一种“极具传染性的危险病毒”。\nFox‘s change in tone was not helpful。\n福克斯的口径调整对疫情防控却没有什么帮助。\nA survey conducted by The Economist， published on March 18， found that only 38 percent of Fox News viewers recognized the seriousness of the virus。 In addition， half of MSNBC viewers considered the virus to be serious。\n《经济学人》3月18日发布的调查结果显示，在福克斯新闻的受众中，只有不到四成的人认识到了病毒的严重性，相比而言，MSNBC新闻台的观众中有一半认为病毒很厉害。\nA recent editorial published by the New York Times， entitled “Trump Defends Using ‘Chinese Virus’ Label， Ignoring Growing Criticism” said that “Medical historians and public health experts — including some in Mr。 Trump‘s administration — have emphasized that pandemics have no ethnicity and stressed that associating them with an ethnic group can lead to discrimination。”\n《纽约时报》近日发表题为《特朗普为使用“中国病毒”标签辩护，无视越来越多的批评》的社论。社论称：“医学历史学家和公共卫生专家——包括特朗普政府中的一些人——都认为大流行病没有种族之分，将病毒与一个种群相联系会导致种族歧视。”\nAnother op-ed published by the New York Times with the headline “Three Rules for the Trump Pandemic” also said “so Donald Trump is now calling Covid-19 the ‘Chinese virus。’ Of course he is： Racism and blaming other people for his own failures are the defining features of his presidency。 But if we‘re going to give it a nickname， much better to refer to it as the ’Trump pandemic‘。”\n《纽约时报》的另一篇题为“特朗普大流行病的三个规则”的专栏文章也写道：“所以，特朗普把新冠病毒称为‘中国病毒’的原因很明显：种族主义和为自己的执政失败找替罪羊，而这两者一直都是他执政风格的标志。如果我们一定要给此次流行病起一个绰号，最好叫它‘特朗普大流行病’。”\nAs of today， the U.S has more than 13，000 confirmed cases。 The governor of California， the most populous state in the U.S。， has estimated that over 25.5 million residents， that‘s 56 percent of the state’s population， will get the virus。\n截至今天，美国已有超过13000例确诊病例。加州州长估计，这个美国人口最多的州将会有至少2550万名居民感染，占该地区人口的56%。\nClearly， the Trump adminsitration‘s handling of the outbreak reveals its failure in uniting against the tragedy and rising above petty blame game politics。\n显然，特朗普政府对疫情的处理暴露了其只会玩点儿政治手段却无法团结各种力量一致对抗危机的事实。\nThere can only be one way forward in the face of a global emergency。 Double standards and indulgence will only lead to self-harm in the end。\n面对此次全球性危机，双重标准和一味纵容最终只会害了自己。\nNow is not the time for finger-pointing or debating in great detail what has already happened。 It‘s time for global cooperation in the face of a common threat。\n现在不是相互指责或者追溯过往的时候。面对共同的威胁，除了全球合作，别无他法。\n责任编辑：张申", "date": "2020-03-22", "EmotionalWords": [], "comments": []}